---
layout: post
title:  "Sannyasi"
date:   2017-10-16 15:25:50 +0530
categories: blog update
---
A Sannyasi is one who renounces everything and undergoes a complete change of personality. why one would become a sannyasi is not easily answered a personal tragidy or frustration, a deeply compelling philosophy of life or flash of illumination may drive one to seek a change. Whatever the cause, when becomes a sannyasi, one obliterates one’s past. A sannyasi is to be taken as he is at the moment. You can never ask a sannyasi about his earlier life. He will never refer to it. It would be a crass, inconsiderate act even to ask a sannyasi his name. He assumes a new name, bearing no mark of his ancestry or class, but indicative of some general beatitude. He has freed himself from all possession and human ties. Among certain sects the man will even performs his own funeral ritualistically before becoming a sannyasi. A sannyasi is wanderer living in alms, never rooted to any place except when he seeks the seclusion of a cave or forest at some stage for prolonged meditation. Apart from the genuine types, there are also fakes who adopt this life for sheer vagrancy, or to exploit the public in the garb of holy men. During certain yogic practices, eight types of supernatural powers may be roused: one could become invisible, levitate, transmute metals, travel in space, control animals and men, live on air and so on so forth. But such magical powers are considered to be stages in one’s evolution, incidental powers acquired on the way, to be ignored and not exercised for profit or self- promotion, except to mitigate pain or suffering in others.
